# Flutter

Flutter is an open source framework by Google for building beautiful, natively compiled, multi-platform applications such as web, Fuchsia, Android, iOS, Linux, macOS, and Windows from a single codebase.

Flutter was first described in 2015, Flutter was released in May 2017


#### Features
1. Fast

Flutter code compiles to ARM or Intel machine code as well as JavaScript, for fast performance on any device.

2. Productive

Build and iterate quickly with Hot Reload. Update code and see changes almost instantly, without losing state.

3. Flexible

Control every pixel to create customized, adaptive designs that look and feel great on any screen.


#### Using Dart and Flutter Together
If you’re actively learning Flutter, learning Dart programming as well would be a great skill to add to your toolset. Leveraging Dart and Flutter together enables developers to build high-quality, natively compiled applications for mobile, web, and desktop from a single codebase, which can save you development time and improve your app’s performance. Learn how Pieces, an AI-enabled productivity tool across macOS, Windows and Linux with plugins across the entire development workflow, used these frameworks to build their products in their Dart and Flutter case study.

#### What are the Prerequisites to Learn Flutter?

You should have basic knowledge of a Dart programming language.


#### Why You Should Learn Flutter?

- Single Codebase: You can use the same code to make apps for android, iOS, web, and desktop.
Beautiful UI: Flutter has special things called widgets, that help you to create beautiful user interfaces.
- Fast Development: Flutter has a hot reload feature that allows you to see changes in your app in real time. This makes the development process faster.
- Efficient Testing: With Flutter, you can easily test your app on different devices and platforms at the same time.
- Ready Made Packages: You can get thousands of ready made packages to enhance your app’s functionality.
Some Popular Apps Built With Flutter

#### Flutter History

| 📅Date |	🎉Event |
| --- | --- |
| 2015	| Google started Flutter as an open-source project. |
| May 12, 2017	| First alpha release of Flutter. |
| Dec 4, 2018	| Flutter 1.0 (first stable version) launches. |
| Mar 3, 2021	| Flutter 2.0 releases with web & desktop support. |
| May 5, 2022	| Flutter 3.0 releases with advanced features. |
| Feb 15, 2024	| Flutter 3.19 releases with more advanced features. |

**Key Points**

- Flutter allows you to build, test, and publish mobile, web, desktop apps from a single codebase.
- It uses Dart programming language, which helps you to build apps fast for many platforms.
- It has lots of widgets to build beautiful user interfaces.
- There are many ready made packages available for Flutter.
- It is backed by Google and trusted by well-known brands worldwide.