# Flutter Installation
You can install Flutter on Windows, Mac, and Linux or run it from the browser.

**Requirements**

- Flutter SDK,
- VS code or other editors like Intellij [We will use VS Code here].
- Git [For Version Control].
- Anrdoid Studio.
- Flutter Windows Installation


#### Steps:
1. Download Flutter sdk from here.
2. Extract or copy Flutter sdk to your C drive.
3. Setup path C:\flutter\bin to your environment variable. Watch the video below to be more clear.
4. Open the command prompt and type flutter –version to check it.
`flutter --version`
5. Install VS Code from here and add Dart and Flutter Extension.
6. Install Android Studio from here and add Android sdk.
7. Install Git from here for version control and to keep track of your code changes.
8. Open the command prompt and type flutter doctor to check and diagnose the setup of your flutter development environment.
 `flutter doctor`


#### Useful Flutter Commands
Here you will find a list of useful Flutter commands that will make your app development process easier and faster.

1. Setting Up

Before diving into development, it’s essential to ensure that Flutter is set up correctly on your machine:

`flutter doctor`

This command checks your environment and displays a report of the status of your Flutter installation. It will also notify you of any dependencies you still need to install.

2. Creating a New Project

To start a new Flutter project you need to run flutter create command. This command will create a new Flutter project in the specified directory.

`flutter create my_app`

This command sets up a new Flutter project called my_app.

3. Running the App

After creating a project, navigate to the project directory and use this command to run the Flutter app in the default device (emulator/simulator).

`flutter run`

4. Checking Installed Devices

To check the list of all connected devices, use the following command:

`flutter devices`

5. Building Apk For Android

To build an APK file for Android, use:

`flutter build apk`

6. Building IPA For iOS

To build an IPA file for iOS, use:

`flutter build ios`

7. Get All Packages

To get all the packages in your project, use:

`flutter pub get`

8. To Create Android App Bundle

To create an app bundle for Android to publish app, use:

`flutter build appbundle`

